in the previous video I talked about
error analysis and the importance of
having error metrics that is of having a
single real number evaluation metric for
your learning algorithm to tell how well
is doing in the context of evaluation
and of error metrics there's one
important case where is particularly
tricky to come up with any appropriate
error metric or evaluation metric for
your learning algorithm that case is the
case of what's called skewed classes let
me tell you what that means considering
the problem of cancer classification
where we have features of medical
patients and we want to decide whether
or not they have cancer so this is like
the malignant versus benign tumor
classification example that we had
earlier so let's say y equals 1 of the
patient has cancer and y equals 0 if
they do not we might train a logistic
regression classifier and let's say we
test our classifier on a test set and
find that we get one percent error so
we're making 99% correct diagnosis seems
like a really impressive as our rate
would correct 99% of the time but now
let's say we find out that only 0.5% of
patients in our training and test sets
actually have cancer
so only half a percentage of the
patients that come through our screening
process have cancer in this case the 1
percent error no longer not so
impressive and the particular here's a
piece of code she is actually a piece of
non learning code that takes us in for
the features X and then ignores it it
just says y equals 0 and always predicts
the Oh nobody has cancer and this
algorithm would actually get 0.5 percent
error so this is even better than the 1
percent error that we're getting just
now and this is a non learning algorithm
as you know it's just predicting y
equals 0 all the time so the setting of
when the ratio of positive to negative
examples is very close to one of the two
extremes where in
case the number of positive examples is
much much smaller than the number of
negative examples because y equals 1 so
rarely this is what we call the case of
skewed classes we just have a lot more
of examples from one class than from the
other class and by just predicting y
equals 0 all the time or maybe right
predicting y equals 1 all the time and
however we can do pretty well so the
problem with using classification error
or classification accuracy as our
evaluation metric is the following let's
say you have one learning algorithm
that's getting 99.2% accuracy so that's
a 1.8 percent error let's say you make a
change to your algorithm and you now are
getting 99.5% accuracy that is 0.5
percent error
so is this an improvement to the
algorithm or not one of the nice things
about having a single real number
evaluation metric because this helps us
to quickly decide if we just made a good
change the algorithm or not by going
from 99.2% accuracy to 99.5% accuracy
you know that we just do something
useful or do we just replace our codes
or something that just predicts y equals
0 more often so if you have very skewed
classes it becomes much harder to use
just classification accuracy because you
can get very high classification
accuracies or very low errors and it's
not always clear if doing so as really
improving the quality of your classifier
because predicting y equals 0 all the
time is doesn't seem that could better
like a particularly good classifier but
just predicting y equals 0 more often
can bring your error down to you know
maybe
as low as 0.5% what would faiths are
such a few classes therefore we would
want to come up with a different error
measuring or a different evaluation
metric one such evaluation metric are
what's called precision we call let me
explain what that is let's say we're
evaluating a classifier on the test set
for the examples in the test set the
actual class of that example in the test
set is going to be here 1 or 0 right if
there's a binary classification problem
and what our learning algorithm will do
is it will you know predict some value
for the class and our learning algorithm
will predict the value for each example
my test set and the predicted value will
also be either 1 or 0 so let me draw a
two-by-two table as follows depending on
and I'll fill in these entries depending
on what was the actual class and was the
predicted class if we have an example
where the actual class is 1 and the
predicted class is 1 then that's called
a an example that's a true positive
meaning our hovervan predicted that is
positive and in reality the example is
positive if our learning algorithm
predicted that something is negative
called 0 and the actual class is also
called 0 then that's what's called a
true negative we predict
zero and it actually is zero to learn
the other two boxes if our learning
algorithm predicts that the cost is 1
but the actual class is zero then that's
called a false positive so that means
our algorithm thought the patient has
cancelled up in the reality the patient
not and finally the last box is a zero
one that's called a false negative
because our algorithm predicted zero but
the actual class was one and so we have
this law to the 2x2 table based on what
was the actual class and what was the
predicted class so here's a different
way of evaluating the performance of our
algorithm we're going to compute two
numbers the first is called precision
and what that says is of all the
patients where we predicted that they
have cancer what fraction of them
actually have cancer so let me write
this down the precision of a classifier
is the number of true positives divided
by the number that we predicted as
positive right so if all the patients
that you know we went to those patients
that we told them we think you have
cancer of all those patients what
fraction of them actually have cancer so
that's called precision and another way
to write this would be true positives
and then in the denominator is the
number of predicted positives and so
that will be the sum of you know the
entries in this first row of the table
so being true positives divided by
through positives I'm going to
abbreviate abbreviate positive as POS
and then plus false positives again
abbreviating positive using POS so
that's called precision and Intel high
precision would be good that means
they've got all the patients that we
went to we said you know we're very
sorry we think your cancer higher
precision means that the that tallying
of that group of patients most of them
we had actually made accurate
predictions on them
they do have cancer the second number
we're gonna compute to this count recall
and what we call says is if all the
patients in it's the same the test set
or in the cross-validation set but of
all the patients in the dataset that
actually have cancer what fraction of
them that we correctly detect as having
cancer so if all the patients have
cancer how many of them did we actually
go to them and you know correctly tell
them that we think they need treatment
so writing this down recall is defined
as the number of positives that excuse
me the number of true positives meaning
right true positive meaning the number
of people they have cancer and that we
correctly predicted half cancer and we
take that and divide that by divide that
by the number of actual positives so
this is the right number of actual
positives of all the people to do have
cancer what fraction do we correctly
flag and you know center treatment so to
rewrite this in a different form the
denominator would be number of actual
positives as you know the sum of the
entries in this first column over here
and sell writing this out differently
this is therefore the number of true
positives divided by the number of true
positives plus the number
false negatives and so once again having
a high recalls would be a good thing
so by computing precision and recall
this will usually give us a better sense
of how well our classifier is doing and
in particular if we have a learning
algorithm that predicts y equals zero
all the time and it predicts no one has
cancer
then this classifier will have a recall
equal to zero because there won't be any
true positives and so that's a quick way
to for us to recognize that you know a
classifier that predicts y equals zero
all the time just isn't a very good
classifier
and more generally even for settings
where we have very skewed classes is not
possible for an algorithm to sort of
quote cheat and somehow get a very high
position and a very high recall by doing
some simple thing like predicting y
equals 0 all the time or predicting y
equals 1 all the time
and so we're much more sure that a
classifier with high precision high
recall actually is a good classifier and
discus gives us a more useful evaluation
metric there's more direct way to
actually understand whether you know our
algorithm may be doing well so one final
note in the definition of precision and
recall that we would define precision
and recall usually we use the convention
that Y is equal to 1 in the presence of
the more rare class so if we're trying
to detect some rare conditions such as
cancer hopefully that's a rare condition
for just precision and recall are
defined setting y equals 1 rather than y
equals 0 to be so the presence of that
rare class that we're trying to detect
and by using precision and recall we
found what happens is that even if we
have very few classes it's not possible
for an algorithm to you know quote
cheats and putting white because 1 all
the time will predict y equals 0 all the
time and get high precision a recall and
in particular if a classifier is getting
high position and high recall then we're
actually confident that the algorithm
has to be doing well even if we have
very few constants so for the promised
few classes precision precision and
recall gives us more direct insight into
how the learning algorithm is doing and
there's often a much better way to
evaluate our learning algorithms then
looking at classification error
mission accuracy when the classes are
very skewed